Adding CloudEvents samples for ASB and SQS (#7933)
Particular/docs.particular.net: samples/aws/cloud-events/sample.md

---
title: AmazonSQS CloudEvents Sample
summary: Demonstrates how to consume CloudEvents via the Amazon SQS
reviewed: 2025-12-10
component: Sqs
related:
- transports/sqs
---

## Prerequisites

### Security and access configuration

Add the [AWS Access Key ID and AWS Secret Access Key](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/general/latest/gr/aws-sec-cred-types.html#access-keys-and-secret-access-keys) to the following environment variables:

* Access Key ID in `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID`
* Secret Access Key in `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY`
* Default Region in `AWS_REGION`

See also [AWS Account Identifiers](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/general/latest/gr/acct-identifiers.html), [Managing Access Keys for an AWS Account](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/general/latest/gr/managing-aws-access-keys.html), and [IAM Security Credentials](https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/home#/security_credential).

See also [AWS Regions](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/general/latest/gr/rande.html) for a list of available regions.

> ### S3 configuration

Reviewer: Is it worth providing screenshots to help users navigate through the various AWS steps outlined below?

The S3 bucket should be configured to generate notifications that are ultimately delivered to the SQS queue matching the endpoint. There are many ways to configure the setup. One example configuration includes:

- Configuring S3 bucket to [send notifications to SQS](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/notification-how-to-event-types-and-destinations.html#supported-notification-event-types)
- Creating [Amazon EventBridge Pipe](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eventbridge/latest/userguide/eb-pipes-event-target.html) that picks up the messages from the SQS queue
- Configuring the Pipe to [transform](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eventbridge/latest/userguide/eb-pipes-input-transformation.html) the messages to the CloudEvents schema as specified in the [CloudEvents specification](https://github.com/cloudevents/spec/blob/main/cloudevents/adapters/aws-s3.md). 

> - Configuring the Pipe to call AWS Lambda that would enrich the message with the proper `content-type` property and send the message to the SQS queue matching the endpoint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Configure the Amazon EventBridge Pipe to call AWS Lambda that would enrich messages with the proper `content-type` property and send them to the SQS queue matching the endpoint
```
